plugins/docker/README.md, before:

# Docker plugin

This plugin adds auto-completion and aliases for [docker](https://www.docker.com/).

To use it add `docker` to the plugins array in your zshrc file.

```zsh
plugins=(... docker)
```

A copy of the completion script from the docker/cli git repo:
https://github.com/docker/cli/blob/master/contrib/completion/zsh/_docker

## Settings

By default, the completion doesn't allow option-stacking, meaning if you try to complete
`docker run -it <TAB>` it won't work, because you're _stacking_ the `-i` and `-t` options.

[You can enable it](https://github.com/docker/cli/commit/b10fb43048) by **adding the lines below to your zshrc
file**, but be aware of the side effects:

> This enables Zsh to understand commands like `docker run -it ubuntu`. However, by enabling this, this also
> makes Zsh complete `docker run -u<tab>` with `docker run -uapprox` which is not valid. The users have to put
> the space or the equal sign themselves before trying to complete.
>
> Therefore, this behavior is disabled by default. To enable it:
>
> ```sh
> zstyle ':completion:*:*:docker:*' option-stacking yes
> zstyle ':completion:*:*:docker-*:*' option-stacking yes
> ```

### Use old-style completion

If the current completion does not work well for you, you can enable legacy completion instead with the
following setting. See https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/issues/11789 for more information.

```zsh
zstyle ':omz:plugins:docker' legacy-completion yes
```

## Aliases

| Alias   | Command                       | Description                                                                              |
| :------ | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| dbl     | `docker build`                | Build an image from a Dockerfile                                                         |
| dcin    | `docker container inspect`    | Display detailed information on one or more containers                                   |
| dcls    | `docker container ls`         | List all the running docker containers                                                   |
| dclsa   | `docker container ls -a`      | List all running and stopped containers                                                  |
| dib     | `docker image build`          | Build an image from a Dockerfile (same as docker build)                                  |
| dii     | `docker image inspect`        | Display detailed information on one or more images                                       |
| dils    | `docker image ls`             | List docker images                                                                       |
| dipu    | `docker image push`           | Push an image or repository to a remote registry                                         |
| dipru   | `docker image prune -a`       | Remove all images not referenced by any container                                        |
| dirm    | `docker image rm`             | Remove one or more images                                                                |
| dit     | `docker image tag`            | Add a name and tag to a particular image                                                 |
| dlo     | `docker container logs`       | Fetch the logs of a docker container                                                     |
| dnc     | `docker network create`       | Create a new network                                                                     |
| dncn    | `docker network connect`      | Connect a container to a network                                                         |
| dndcn   | `docker network disconnect`   | Disconnect a container from a network                                                    |
| dni     | `docker network inspect`      | Return information about one or more networks                                            |
| dnls    | `docker network ls`           | List all networks the engine daemon knows about, including those spanning multiple hosts |
| dnrm    | `docker network rm`           | Remove one or more networks                                                              |
| dpo     | `docker container port`       | List port mappings or a specific mapping for the container                               |
| dps     | `docker ps`                   | List all the running docker containers                                                   |
| dpsa    | `docker ps -a`                | List all running and stopped containers                                                  |
| dpu     | `docker pull`                 | Pull an image or a repository from a registry                                            |
| dr      | `docker container run`        | Create a new container and start it using the specified command                          |
| drit    | `docker container run -it`    | Create a new container and start it in an interactive shell                              |
| drm     | `docker container rm`         | Remove the specified container(s)                                                        |
| drm!    | `docker container rm -f`      | Force the removal of a running container (uses SIGKILL)                                  |
| dst     | `docker container start`      | Start one or more stopped containers                                                     |
| drs     | `docker container restart`    | Restart one or more containers                                                           |
| dsta    | `docker stop $(docker ps -q)` | Stop all running containers                                                              |
| dstp    | `docker container stop`       | Stop one or more running containers                                                      |
| dtop    | `docker top`                  | Display the running processes of a container                                             |
| dvi     | `docker volume inspect`       | Display detailed information about one or more volumes                                   |
| dvls    | `docker volume ls`            | List all the volumes known to docker                                                     |
| dvprune | `docker volume prune`         | Cleanup dangling volumes                                                                 |
| dxc     | `docker container exec`       | Run a new command in a running container                                                 |
| dxcit   | `docker container exec -it`   | Run a new command in a running container in an interactive shell                         |

Commit message:

docs(docker): add section for podman's docker wrapper (#13024)

plugins/docker/README.md, after:

# Docker plugin

This plugin adds auto-completion and aliases for [docker](https://www.docker.com/).

To use it add `docker` to the plugins array in your zshrc file.

```zsh
plugins=(... docker)
```

A copy of the completion script from the docker/cli git repo:
https://github.com/docker/cli/blob/master/contrib/completion/zsh/_docker

## Settings

By default, the completion doesn't allow option-stacking, meaning if you try to complete
`docker run -it <TAB>` it won't work, because you're _stacking_ the `-i` and `-t` options.

[You can enable it](https://github.com/docker/cli/commit/b10fb43048) by **adding the lines below to your zshrc
file**, but be aware of the side effects:

> This enables Zsh to understand commands like `docker run -it ubuntu`. However, by enabling this, this also
> makes Zsh complete `docker run -u<tab>` with `docker run -uapprox` which is not valid. The users have to put
> the space or the equal sign themselves before trying to complete.
>
> Therefore, this behavior is disabled by default. To enable it:
>
> ```sh
> zstyle ':completion:*:*:docker:*' option-stacking yes
> zstyle ':completion:*:*:docker-*:*' option-stacking yes
> ```

### Use old-style completion

If the current completion does not work well for you, you can enable legacy completion instead with the
following setting. See https://github.com/ohmyzsh/ohmyzsh/issues/11789 for more information.

```zsh
zstyle ':omz:plugins:docker' legacy-completion yes
```

### For Podman's Docker wrapper users

If you use Podman's Docker wrapper, you need to enable legacy completion. See above section.

## Aliases

| Alias   | Command                       | Description                                                                              |
| :------ | :---------------------------- | :--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| dbl     | `docker build`                | Build an image from a Dockerfile                                                         |
| dcin    | `docker container inspect`    | Display detailed information on one or more containers                                   |
| dcls    | `docker container ls`         | List all the running docker containers                                                   |
| dclsa   | `docker container ls -a`      | List all running and stopped containers                                                  |
| dib     | `docker image build`          | Build an image from a Dockerfile (same as docker build)                                  |
| dii     | `docker image inspect`        | Display detailed information on one or more images                                       |
| dils    | `docker image ls`             | List docker images                                                                       |
| dipu    | `docker image push`           | Push an image or repository to a remote registry                                         |
| dipru   | `docker image prune -a`       | Remove all images not referenced by any container                                        |
| dirm    | `docker image rm`             | Remove one or more images                                                                |
| dit     | `docker image tag`            | Add a name and tag to a particular image                                                 |
| dlo     | `docker container logs`       | Fetch the logs of a docker container                                                     |
| dnc     | `docker network create`       | Create a new network                                                                     |
| dncn    | `docker network connect`      | Connect a container to a network                                                         |
| dndcn   | `docker network disconnect`   | Disconnect a container from a network                                                    |
| dni     | `docker network inspect`      | Return information about one or more networks                                            |
| dnls    | `docker network ls`           | List all networks the engine daemon knows about, including those spanning multiple hosts |
| dnrm    | `docker network rm`           | Remove one or more networks                                                              |
| dpo     | `docker container port`       | List port mappings or a specific mapping for the container                               |
| dps     | `docker ps`                   | List all the running docker containers                                                   |
| dpsa    | `docker ps -a`                | List all running and stopped containers                                                  |
| dpu     | `docker pull`                 | Pull an image or a repository from a registry                                            |
| dr      | `docker container run`        | Create a new container and start it using the specified command                          |
| drit    | `docker container run -it`    | Create a new container and start it in an interactive shell                              |
| drm     | `docker container rm`         | Remove the specified container(s)                                                        |
| drm!    | `docker container rm -f`      | Force the removal of a running container (uses SIGKILL)                                  |
| dst     | `docker container start`      | Start one or more stopped containers                                                     |
| drs     | `docker container restart`    | Restart one or more containers                                                           |
| dsta    | `docker stop $(docker ps -q)` | Stop all running containers                                                              |
| dstp    | `docker container stop`       | Stop one or more running containers                                                      |
| dtop    | `docker top`                  | Display the running processes of a container                                             |
| dvi     | `docker volume inspect`       | Display detailed information about one or more volumes                                   |
| dvls    | `docker volume ls`            | List all the volumes known to docker                                                     |
| dvprune | `docker volume prune`         | Cleanup dangling volumes                                                                 |
| dxc     | `docker container exec`       | Run a new command in a running container                                                 |
| dxcit   | `docker container exec -it`   | Run a new command in a running container in an interactive shell                         |
